Add new WTH Contribution Guide (#315)
microsoft/WhatTheHack: CONTRIBUTING.md

# What The Hack - Contribution Guide

What The Hack is all about being "for the people, by the people". This repo was originally created to share real-world hackathons that Microsoft employees have hosted with their customers. Here are our core principles:

> - Anyone can [contribute a new hack](#-contributing-a-new-hack-to-what-the-hack).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Anyone can [contribute a new hack](#contributing-a-new-hack-to-what-the-hack).
```

1. For proposals
    - Is this a net new hack topic, or should your contribution extend or modify and existing hack?
    - It is okay to have more than one hack on the same technology, but the new hack should be an independent set of challenges that stand on their own.

## Contributing a New Hack to What The Hack

This section describes the guidelines for contributing a new hack to What The Hack. For contributors making an update to an existing hack, see the section below on [updating an existing hack](#contributing-an-update-to-an-existing-hack).

In general, the WTH team prefers to collaborate with and assist contributors as they author new hacks. This makes the review process smoother when a new hack is ready to be published via a Pull Request. We offer the option of collaborating via Microsoft Teams in a "What The Hack" team that we maintain at Microsoft. 

You may still choose to develop a new hack independently and submit it for review via the [PR process below](#use-work-in-progress-prs-for-early-feedback).

### On-Boarding Process (Optional, but STRONGLY recommended)

> Once you have submitted an [Issue/Proposal](https://aka.ms/wthproposal) via Github, you can expect the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have submitted an [Issue/Proposal](https://github.com/microsoft/WhatTheHack/issues/new?labels=proposal&template=proposal.yml&title=%5BProposal%5D%3A+) via Github, you can expect the following:
```

Author: I thought about using that direct link with the querystring, but thought it seems subject to change if GH changes their API on this feature?  I do think we should avoid the aka.ms shortened link and send to the issues page where you can choose from one of the templates as I did in other spots in the doc.

Reviewer: OK that works

        - This is NOT a technical content review. As the author(s), YOU are the subject matter experts. The WTH team will trust that you have taken care of the technical bits.
    - **NOTE:** It is important that you take notes through-out the meeting so that you can go away, make any changes requested, and not miss anything.
1.	Once you have completed any requested changes from the "pre-PR review", you can submit a pull request to the WTH repo.
1.	The WTH team will review your PR and leave comments if there are any requested changes that still remain. If there are requested changes, please add further comments if you have clarifying questions to ask, or arguments against, the requested changes (that’s ok).
    - **NOTE:** Make any requested changes by continuing to commit to your fork. The PR will automatically update with your changes.  You do NOT need to create a new pull request!
1.	Once you have addressed any requested changes from the WTH team, the WTH team will accept and merge the PR.

### Use work in progress PRs for early feedback

If you choose not to collaborate with the WTH team via Microsoft Teams, alternatively you can use a work-in-progress Pull Request.

> A good way to communicate before investing too much time is to create a "Work-in-progress" PR and share it with the WTH team. The standard way of doing this is to add a "[WIP]" prefix in your PR's title and assign the **do-not-merge** label. This will let people looking at your PR know that it is not well baked yet.

Reviewer: Out of curiosity why **do-not-merge** label instead of making it a draft PR, which makes it not mergeable?

Author: Idk?  This was borrowed text from the Dapr project. :)

Reviewer: Outdated as we have since discussed draft vs. regular PR.

# What The Hack - Contribution Guide

> What The Hack is all about being "for the people, by the people". This repo was originally created to share real-world hackathons that Microsoft employees have hosted with their customers. Here are our core principles:

Reviewer 2: Would add after "...hosted with their customers." ....

It has since grown to be used as learned tools for anyone, anywhere, and follows the same core principles:

Author: Done... with slight modification.

"It has since grown to be a learning tool for anyone, anywhere, and follows these core principles:"

- Anyone can use the content to [host their own WTH event](./000-HowToHack/WTH-HowToHostAHack.md).
- Anyone can [contribute a new hack](#-contribute-a-new-hack-to-what-the-hack).
- Anyone can modify or update a hack as needed.

>   - Submitting a [pull request for updated content](#-contribute-an-update-to-an-existing-hack) is encouraged.

Author: Done

> - The content can always be shared with hack attendees **(AFTER your event)**

Reviewer 2: Add period after sentence for consistency.

Author: Done

> This document provides the guidelines for how to contribute to the What The Hack project.

Reviewer 2: Recommend adding "general" in front of guidelines and make the WTH project at the end plural to projects, unless intention is to refer to the overall WTH "project"?  

Would also add statement along the lines of "If these guidelines do not cover your questions, please contact the WTH team @ ..."

Author: Done.  Added "general".  But intention is to refer to the overall WTH project as one thing.

## How Can I Contribute?

> The best way to contribute is to engage and get in touch with the What The Hack team by [submitting an issue via Github](https://github.com/microsoft/WhatTheHack/issues/new/choose). 

Reviewer 2: Suggest using "contribute" or "engage", but not both.  

Or, you could say "The best way to contribute is to engage the WTH team by..."

I did note that there was nowhere to "request assistance" clearly.  Is that under "bug"?  If so, let's add that to the comment under "Bug" on submitting issue link with something along the lines of "Report a Hack Bug or Request Assistance".

Author: Done. Thanks for wordsmithing.

"Ask for help hosting a what The Hack" is how you request assistance.

### Before You Start

Before you start contributing and file an issue, make sure you've checked for existing issues:
   - Before you create a new issue, please do a search in [open issues](https://github.com/microsoft/WhatTheHack/issues) to see if the issue or feature request has already been filed.
   - If you find your issue already exists, make relevant comments and add your [reaction](https://github.com/blog/2119-add-reaction-to-pull-requests-issues-and-comments). Use a reaction:
        - 👍 up-vote
        - 👎 down-vote

## Report a Bug in an Existing Hack

You have found a bug in a hack and want to report it. Great! Something is not right, and it needs to be fixed. 

Please go to the Issues page for the WTH repo and create an ["Issue/Bug"](https://github.com/microsoft/WhatTheHack/issues/new?assignees=&labels=bug&template=bug.yml&title=%5BBug%5D%3A+). 

Let us know which hack has the bug. Is it in the Student guide? Coach guide? Is it a documentation issue? Or an issue with a provided resource file or solution file? The form will guide you on what information you should submit. The WTH team will follow up on your submission. 

> We welcome bug fixes!  If you wish fix the bug yourself, please see the section on how to [Contribute an update to an existing hack](#-contribute-an-update-to-an-existing-hack)

Reviewer 2: would add after "reaction" to highlight your agreement/disagreement with the issue request.

> We welcome bug fixes!  If you wish fix the bug yourself, please see the section on how to [Contribute an update to an existing hack](#-contribute-an-update-to-an-existing-hack)

Reviewer 2: In review, agree with Jordan - the link for "Contribute an update to an existing hack was not clickable" in preview.

> We welcome bug fixes!  If you wish fix the bug yourself, please see the section on how to [Contribute an update to an existing hack](#-contribute-an-update-to-an-existing-hack)

Author: Done

You have a proposal on how to improve an existing hack, or you want to suggest a new hack topic. For improving an existing hack, your proposal should go beyond a "bug fix" and be a fair sized improvement or addition of content.

For new hack proposals, consider:
   - Is this a net new hack topic? Or should your contribution extend or modify an existing hack?
   - It is okay to have more than one hack on the same technology, but the new hack should be an independent set of challenges that stand on their own.

At this point, you are just giving feedback.  You may, or may not, be interested in authoring or updating content yourself. Thanks in advance for your feedback, we can't wait to read it!

Please go to the Issues page for the WTH repo and create an ["Issue/Proposal"](https://github.com/microsoft/WhatTheHack/issues/new?assignees=&labels=proposal&template=proposal.yml&title=%5BProposal%5D%3A+). 

The form will guide you on what information you should submit. The WTH team will follow up on your proposal. 

We welcome new hacks and improvements to existing hacks. If you intend to 'do the work' you are proposing, read on for how to:

> - [Contribute a new hack to What The Hack](#-contribute-a-new-hack-to-what-the-hack)

Author: Done

OR

> - [Contribute an update to an existing hack](#-contribute-an-update-to-an-existing-hack)

Reviewer 3: I don't think there is supposed to be a dash between the # and the word "contribute", ```#contribute-an-update-to-an-existing-hack```

Author: Done

## Contribute a New Hack to What The Hack

You want to author a new hack yourself, or with a team of others, and contribute it to What The Hack. 

> Please check if there is an existing "Proposal" Issue on the WTH repo to track your new hack. Add a comment to the existing issue to let the WTH team know you are working on this contribution.

Author: The instructions on creating a "proposal" involve filling in a Github Issue form for a proposal.  Can we set the issue form up to automatically add a label?  if so, then I don't think we need to change the instructions here?

If there is no existing Issue for the new hack you plan to contribute, please start by going to the Issues page for the WTH repo and create an ["Issue/Proposal"](https://github.com/microsoft/WhatTheHack/issues/new?assignees=&labels=proposal&template=proposal.yml&title=%5BProposal%5D%3A+).

In general, the WTH team prefers to collaborate with and assist contributors as they author new hacks. This makes the review process smoother when a new hack is ready to be published via a Pull Request. We offer the option of collaborating via Microsoft Teams in a "What The Hack" team that we maintain at Microsoft. 

You may still choose to develop a new hack independently and submit it for review via the [PR process below](#use-draft-pull-requests-for-early-feedback).

### On-Boarding Process (Optional, but STRONGLY recommended)

> 

Author: I could add that.  However, I thought the sentence above made that recommendation clear already?

"In general, the WTH team prefers to collaborate with and assist contributors as they author new hacks. This makes the review process smoother when a new hack is ready to be published via a Pull Request. We offer the option of collaborating via Microsoft Teams in a "What The Hack" team that we maintain at Microsoft."

I'm happy to repeat that if you think it's not clear enough.

    - Add a copy of the "[WTH Outline Template](https://github.com/microsoft/WhatTheHack/blob/master/000-HowToHack/WTH-ProposalAndAbstract.docx?raw=true)" to the Files tab of your new channel. 
        - You can use this Word template to brainstorm and draft an outline of your hack.
1.	The WTH team will schedule a kick off call with you and any co-authors to:
    - Review the WTH contribution process and set expectations for collaboration between the WTH team and the author(s).
    - Walk through the [WTH Author's Guide](./000-HowToHack/WTH-HowToAuthorAHack.md). 
        - All authors need to read and internalize this document to save you trouble and heartache down the line.
    - Set up a bi-weekly cadence meeting to check-in and address any questions or requests you have during development.
1.	During the cadence meetings, the authors will dictate the pace of the call and report what they have worked on. It is essentially your time to discuss things with the WTH team and/or collaborate with your co-authors. If there is a stint that nothing was worked on, that’s totally fine. We understand and appreciate that most folks are contributing to What The Hack in their spare time.

> **NOTE:** If you are not familiar with Git, Github, or markdown files, you are not alone! Since What The Hack is a collection of mostly course content and documentation, many of our contributors are not developers. It's out of scope to explain these tools here. However, there are plenty of great [resources on the Internet](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/contributing-to-projects) that can help get you up to speed. Also, don't be shy to ask the WTH team for help navigating Git and Github. 

Author: Done

### Development Process

> All contributions to the What The Hack repo come through pull requests. This means that development of a hack starts by forking the What The Hack repo into your own Github account. This is where you will do your work. Eventually, you will create a pull request to submit your work back to the What The Hack repo for review.

Author: Done

**NOTE:** If you are working with a team of co-authors, the team should pick one person to create a fork into their Github account. The other authors should collaborate and contribute to that person's fork during the development process.

Okay, ready to get started creating your own What The Hack?

> The instructions below assume you have the git command line tool on your machine. If you're more comfortable in a GUI git client, you can use that too (we recommend [Atlassian's SourceTree](https://www.sourcetreeapp.com/)).

Author: Done.  Link added.

1. Create a fork of the WTH repo
   - Navigate to the WTH repo at: <https://aka.ms/wthrepo>
   - Click the "Fork" button at the top right of the page and then choose the account you want to create the fork in. 
1. Clone your new fork to your local machine
   ```
   git clone https://github.com/<myname>/WhatTheHack.git
   cd WhatTheHack
   ```
1. Create a new branch for your work in your fork. It is a best practice to never work directly on the main/master branch
   ```
   git branch MyWork
   git checkout MyWork
   ```
1. Add a new top level folder to the WTH repo using "`XXX`" as a placeholder for the number prefix
   ```mkdir XXX-MyAwesomeHack```
1. Within your new folder, create the following directory structure:
	```

>     ../Coach

Reviewer 3: these should all be single dots

    - **NOTE:** Make any requested changes by continuing to commit to your fork. The PR will automatically update with your changes.  You do NOT need to create a new pull request!
1.	Once you have addressed any requested changes from the WTH team, the WTH team will accept and merge the PR.

### Use Draft Pull Requests for Early Feedback

If you choose not to collaborate with the WTH team via Microsoft Teams, alternatively you can use a [draft pull request](https://github.blog/2019-02-14-introducing-draft-pull-requests/).

A good way to communicate before investing too much time is to create a "draft" pull request and share it with the WTH team. You can do this by selecting "Create Draft Pull Request" when [opening a pull request](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request-from-a-fork). This will let people looking at your PR know that it is not well baked yet.

> The WTH team will review your new hack following the same guidelines as above. However, the process will take longer if we need to spend additional cycles going back and forth within Github's PR process.

Author: Done

## Contribute an Update to an Existing Hack

If you are planning to fix a bug or implement an update for an existing hack, please check if there is an existing Issue on the WTH repo to track it. Add a comment to the existing issue to let the WTH team know you are working on this contribution.

If there is no existing Issue for the update you plan to contribute, please start by going to the Issues page for the WTH repo and create one:
 - For bug fixes: ["Issue/Bug"](https://github.com/microsoft/WhatTheHack/issues/new?assignees=&labels=bug&template=bug.yml&title=%5BBug%5D%3A+). 
- For general improvements: ["Issue/Proposal"](https://github.com/microsoft/WhatTheHack/issues/new?assignees=&labels=proposal&template=proposal.yml&title=%5BProposal%5D%3A+).

To contribute an update to an existing hack, you should:

> 1. Fork the What The Hack repo into your own Github account. 

Author: Done
